Imbued with a rupturing rave-punk sensibility.
	Mr. Impossible [is] a record that shows a band evolving, as it embraces full-on melodicism with a cheeky goofball spirit.
	On the evidence of Mr. Impossible, they still sound like no one else and they're still thinking hard about music and texture. When you're craving something trashy and tripped-out in this very particular way, they still deliver the properly damaged goods.
	Though Mr. Impossible is their most accessible work to date, it's still unmistakably Black Dice.
	The result is album of beats and grooves, alternately plodding and engaging, punctuated by the occasional bursts of Black Dice's signature sonic playfulness.
	Always challenging, never compromising, Black Dice prove why it's the most thrilling noise band around.
	Black Dice maintain the high experimental standards that made their other records cult favorites, and manage to present their spectrum of squelches in a more focused way than usual, without sacrificing playfulness.
	Mr. Impossible feels both inquisitive and hermetic, half closed off to the outside world, half chasing noise and patterns to their logical conclusion.
	For those interested in zany experimentalism, Black Dice's latest is a welcome addition to a long line of solid releases, but for those who have never been awed by this brand of cacophony, Mr. Impossible offers little besides noise.
	There's strange stuff here even by the none-stranger Black Dice's standards. But again it's more purposeful and propulsive than that appearing on their previous albums.
	Mr. Impossible accomplishes the improbable: being more accessible and more alienating at the same time.
	Impossible feels weirdly adroit. [Jun 2012, p.160]
	There is a laudably uncompromising quality to the album which I admire. But by the time I get to album finale Brunswick Sludge I find myself getting a little bored with it all. There's only so much wacky noise experimentation I can take in one go.
	Mr. Impossible is easily Black Dice's most accessible album yet, but that's not saying much. It's still very uneasy listening.
	A record that is a highly-concentrated shot of sound. You might lose your mind, but Black Dice never lose the plot. [May 2012, p.91]
	Yet despite having created a record that admirably challenges pop conventions, Black Dice could let a little more of the tradition in to help shape their material further and get the most from this direction.
	As bewilderingly little logic as Black Dice's rave collages contain, they're nailing something close to unique.
	While that combination [hip-hop beat, industrial trudge, start-stop synth] yields some moments of blissful jitteriness and pop rejiggering, Mr. Impossible never gets too far past being big, dumb, and unquantifiably creepy.
	When it works, the noises are strange and exciting, like discovering a dead animal as a child, all over a danceable groove. When it doesn't, it just sounds like a drunken jam sesh over fucked up Casio drum loops.
	The trio's sixth album Mr Impossible finds Black Dice at their most accessible and most aggravating.
	[By] stripping down their music to basics, Black Dice have lost the soul in their music. The neatly-defined order of the motifs and disorder of the noise together create a surprisingly tedious album.
	Music without charm or purpose, with all the nutritional value of a Twinkie. [Apr 2012, p.71]
	