The Fiery Furnaces have delivered another great American novel via guitars, drums, bells, and whistles.
	As exhausting as it is brilliant. [Dec 2005, p.202]
	Whether Eleanor echoes her grandmother or provides a less mature counterpoint, her gravity melds with Sarantos' gusto for a dissonance that's never entirely discordant. [Nov 2005, p.100]
	An astonishing concept-album full of humour, tenderness and life-affirming spirit.
	The flickering narrative works to pull ears closer to the band's most wowing musical offering to date.
	As unique and poignant as a family bible. [Nov 2005, p.104]
	If last year's engrossing, infuriating Blueberry Boat revealed the Friedbergers as a uniquely strange and perversely ambitious proposition, Rehearsing My Choir, remarkably, trumps it, striking a chord of real feeling alongside the pell-mell fabulation. [Dec 2005, p.110]
	The album is no less a triumph as it is a fantastic future family heirloom. That said, Rehearsing might test the patience of even longtime fans. [#11, p.106]
	My feeling is that Rehearsing My Choir is an odd, initially indigestible album that is far more interesting than most people are willing to admit.
	These prose-stuffed metasongs require concentrated listening. But the rewards are rich, the experience unique.
	The album cements the band as a love-them-or-hate-them proposition, but the Fiery Furnaces remain true to themselves.
	The twosome's sincere kitchen-sink music and lyrical pathos mean the tales of Chicago life unravel like a good Paul Auster novel. [Dec 2005, p.150]
	Imaging you're listening to a radio play and let the story engage you, and you might find yourself hooked. [Dec 2005, p.108]
	Not for all--or even most--tastes, the result is abrasive and weirdly haunting. [Nov 2005, p.135]
	Rehearsing My Choir is too self-consciously hip to be a twilight reflection on things past and is filled with personal asides only blood relatives can relate to.
	Think of a visit to Nana's house reimagined as alt-Broadway musical theater. [29 Oct 2005]
	There might be a compelling story in there, but when the Furnaces' songs come in to elaborate on her tales... it's all but impossible to figure out what's going on. [6 Nov 2005]
	[The Grandmother's] spoken-word soliloquies only deepen Choir's too-clever-for-its-own-good impenetrability. [28 Oct 2005, p.89]
	Admittedly, though it’s clunky and overwrought, the real problem isn’t that the story is tedious or that Olga’s voice is awful--it’s actually weirdly thrilling--it’s that the album simply doesn’t feel as well executed as the premise promises.
	As a think piece, Rehearsing My Choir is enormously engaging, but as a pop record, it's exhausting and fruitless.
	Thrilling prospect though it may be, the result is a disaster.
	It's tedious where there should be tension.
	The problem this time out isn’t a lack of interesting material, it’s that these aren’t lyrics, these aren’t songs, these are for the most part spoken word stories backed by some of the most horrific and baroque music ever recorded.
	The first and possibly most damaging problem lies in the music, which lacks the focus, coherence, and development to be rewarding beyond a novelty listen.
	On Rehearsing My Choir, the Furnaces are just defiant because they can be, indulging every impulse but neglecting to make any of them even remotely compelling. [#70, p.96]
	