An extremely promising debut.
	Turns out Odd Future benefits greatly from this duo anchoring their wild universe, as Purple Naked Ladies is one of the collective's more sensual and sensible releases to date.
	Ladies is a strong debut and, overall, it presents a pretty unique environment to get lost in.
	While the production is woozy, stop-start delirious and off kilter, the lyrics, sung by Syd in an appealing, unpolished style, are cutting.
	This slippery debut from Odd Future's Syd the Kyd and Matt Martians embarks on a journey into Twilight Zone pop, with a lovelorn story arc that transitions from giddy crushing to it's-over melancholia.
	The problem is that it's just too light on hip-hop, and too close to the other experimental work they've already done in other side projects.
	The Internet still feels like an important first step, not only for its willingness to test the limits of current hip hop/R&B, but as proof that Odd Future is more than just a one-man show. [Mar 2012, p.108]
	Thrilling and original. It's a dense but shifting mist of sound: snatches of vocals, meandering electric piano and guitar figures, synthesisers that move from enveloping warmth to jangling out of tune, topped off with Bennett's sweetly understated voice...  [Yet] for all its flashes of brilliance, it sounds more like a free download.
	An endearingly scattershot take on spaced-out R&B, complete with drug fetishism and a load of moves apparently copped from the Neptunes.
	Most of the songs flatline – ambient, rambling soundscapes that are largely indistinguishable...It's no coincidence that the briefest songs, when Syd really gets down and makes her personality felt, are also some of the best.
	This sprawling effort could sorely use some tightening up.
	The album's biggest hindrance is a lack of ruthlessness at crucial moments, eschewing cohesion for broad-stroke stabs at too many genres.
	Like many spinoffs from the Odd Future machine, it's a small piece of a larger puzzle, useful for obsessives concerned with keeping their catalogs up to date.
	Syd the Kyd mostly drifts through the music, and is more compelling when getting into trouble--as on Cocaine and Fastlane--rather than lamenting love lost.
	Without that blessed cohesion that is the groove, Purple Naked Ladies is an alternately jaggy and listless dream, rather than the narcotic romp it is meant to be.
	Any halfway interesting endeavor is either quickly discarded or frustratingly bereft of further exploration and expansion.
	There is a resounding thinness to Purple Naked Ladies and its finest moments sound like a collection of scratch tracks from a lost Erykah Badu/Neptunes session circa 1998. [Mar 2012, p.54]
	When the Internet do short and romantic, their songs are tight and purposeful. Other stylistic excursions don't work out as well.
	Syd's uninterest in the topic on the dreary, sporadically interesting Purple Naked Ladies is disappointing, if not unforgivable.
	The most disappointing aspect about Syd Tha Kid's delivery is her inability to create a remotely compelling protagonist - something Odd Future members have proved themselves more than capable of doing.
	When you boil it down, Purple Naked Ladies' biggest fault is that it's generic.
	