[It] transcends sonic genres with a mature exploration of a global village too distracted to notice it's shorting itself.
	This 17-track colossus is eclectic, ambitious ad expertly executed. [Nov 2011, p.103]
	Except for the occasionally bumpy ride, though, The Less You Know, The Better is one of the most entertaining albums of the year, with countless moments of brilliance.
	A guest spot for Little Dragon's Yukimi Nagano adds spice to this unexpected feast.
	Shadow's densest and longest work at first sounds like an overstylized, underwritten retread with lots of superfluous cuts sporting names like "Tedium." But it eventually rewards hard listening.
	The Less You Know isn't as consistently stunning as Shadow's first two discs, but it'll be comforting proof that he's no mere shadow of his former self. [Oct 2011, p.112]
	While this album may lack his debut's soul-jazz seamlessness, it compensates with bipolar freakiness.
	The Less You Know, the Better isn't a bad album at all, and will likely grow into something far more impressive, something that isn't quite evident on first play.
	The Less You Know also feels inconsequential, sounding like the work of a man who has run out of ideas and is coasting along on craft. Which might be fine, except that so little of it actually sticks.
	Shadow also flirts with more conventional songs, putting vocalists at the forefront of "I've Been Trying" and "Sad and Lonely" with acceptable if hardly transcendent results. But when he focuses on dark, shape-shifting mood pieces ("Tedium," "Circular Logic," "Enemy Lines") he remains unmatched.
	The Less you know is a rather ponderous return to form. [Dec 2011, p.81]
	While Josh Davis has valiantly refused to photocopy his pioneering 1996 debut Endtroducing, this fourth album could use its mystery and cohesion. [Nov. 2011, p. 139]
	It's a hit-and-miss affair.
	What's sometimes impossible to put into words is how, despite all an album's shortcomings and stacked odds, it's still a perfectly enjoyable listen.
	Overall, this is a highly schizophrenic collection.
	The Less You Know, the Better  is equal parts frustrating and admirable.
	There's a pronounced shortfall of his usual joyous eclecticism here, with many pieces settling for basic repetitive sequences; some sound like little more than extended intros.
	Things jump back and forth from there, and never seem to build to very much. Shadow may want to cross back.
	For an artist who lets as much time pass between albums as DJ Shadow does, his ideas shouldn't feel as undercooked as they do here.
	Overall it sounds like the work of a man struggling to recall his motivations for making music in the first place.
	DJ Shadow first made his name by delving deep into the world's bottomless pile of debris to redeem the wannbe hits and half-formed artistic statements of our musical past. Now, he contributes to it. s[#82, p. 54]
	Its only commitment is to a subtle antagonism, and it ignores pretty much any worthwhile development in pop, rock, electronic, or hip-hop music since the turn of the century.
	Given the sprawling length, naturally it's not devoid of a few stray gems and curiosities. [Oct 2011, p.60]
	Shadow's production is wantonly flashy, but it can't mask his lack of flair.
	His newest album, on the other hand, is all technique and no emotion.
	